'''
OOPS in Python
Object oriented Programming 
It is a Programming Paradigm that organizs program using classes and objects.
Insted of writing programs as a proceduree,OOP organize Software into objects that contain both data and behaviour.

Class:
-class is a blueprint or template for creating objects. We can think of a class as a recipe: 
it describes what an object will look like (its attributes) and what it can do (its methods),
but it is not the object itself.
A bluePrint or template used to create objects.
It defines:
    Variables.
    Methods.
    Behaviors of the concepts.

Syntax- 

class Cake:
    pass

Objects: 
An Object is an instance of class.It represent Real world Entities.

Syntax-:

    object_name = Classname()
    
EX-- Laptops: Real entity that exists.
    Each Object is Instance of Class.
    Each Object is Independent.
    Objects Have Properties.
    Each Object is Occupy Memories.



Advantages:
---------------------------------------
1. Code Reusability:
 - Classes can be reused using Inheritance.

2. Modularity:
 - Programs Can be divided into small Parts

3. Security:
 -  Data hiding can be Implemented using encapsulation.

4.Flexibility: 
 Support Polymorphims.

5.Easy Maintence:
 - Code Becomes Easy to update and management.

6.Real World Modelling:
- Prrogram resemble the real world objectswhich provides real time solutions.

Why OOPS IS Required:




-Object-Oriented Programming (OOP) is used to organize and manage code efficiently.

If we do not use OOP concepts, the program becomes difficult to manage because:

Data redundancy increases – the same data may be repeated in many places.

Code duplication occurs – we may need to write the same code multiple times.

Maintenance becomes difficult – making changes in large programs is harder.

Reusability is limited – code cannot be reused easily.

Using OOP concepts like Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism, and Abstraction helps to:

Reuse code (Inheritance)

Reduce redundancy

Improve code organization

Make programs easier to maintain and extend

Provide better data security

✅ Therefore, OOP makes programs modular, reusable, and easy to manage.





'''